So let's begin creating our test class.
So instead of starting from scratch, able to set up code, I'm going to simply copy and paste this
existing add remove item basket test by using control.
See in control the on my keyboard and I'm going to call this new class.
Shop.
Log in, test and then click.
Okay.
If I double click to open that class, it will contain the following code.
So a lot of this will be relevant.
So if you remember, my starting point is going to be the automation tests in home page and then I'm
going to click on the test link, which will take me to this page here.
So we've done this before in our previous tests.
So I don't need to change this section because this takes us to the homepage and it keeps the test store
link, which will then take us to the test or home page.
So I need to change from this point here.
So from this point, I am going to remove this.
And delete it like so.
So it takes us to the home page.
Clicks on the test store link we send.
Takes us to the test or home page.
So from this point here, I'll be on this page and I need to click on.
Is sign in button and as we've amended our page object class last lecture, it means I can create shop
home thoughts gets and if we look down we'll see get log in button.
And I want to click it.
This would then take us to this log in page.
So this is where we continue to use the Excel data to fill in these two fields.
So I am going to write the code and I'm going to explain what it does.
The first thing we need to do is access this credentials workbook, and we can do that by using a similar
method to when we was accessing the Conflict Properties file.
So what we can riot is.
While input stream.
I'm going to call this work book.
Location equals new.
Oil input stream.
Then inside the brackets, I need to provide the path to access and locate this file.
So you may remember that we can do this by using the system.
They'll get.
Property.
And in here we can use user that the air.
You may remember that this is the starting point of our project.
And so from this point, we can then add the rest of the path to locate the Credentials Workbook.
So outside that first set of brackets, I'm going to use a plus symbol.
And now if I right click this credentials workbook and go to properties.
I am going to take from this point.
From now.
I'm going to paste it in double quotes like so.
The semi-colon at the end.
On doing so, though I've noticed that we only have four wood slashes here.
You may remember in Java that we need to use axe slashes and use double back slashes.
So I'm going to replace them.
If the carriage return here, this will make it easier for you to read.
So we've used system don't get property use user directory, which will be the starting point of this
project plus the path source test.
Source main java.
And then resources.
And that's where the credentials to excel file resides.
So I'm going to now imports for input stream from Java IO.
And that everything goes away.
So now that we have access to the workbook, we need to use Apache Po y classes in order to access the
actual workbook itself and then the data within the workbook which will be stored on the worksheet.
To do this, I'm going to use the following.
Ex s s s.
Work.
Book.
And I'm going to call this object work book equals new.
X s s f workbook.
And the parameter that we need to provide here is the location of where the workbook is stored.
So I'm going to simply pass this here.
And at the end of that line, I'm just going to say the semicolon.
So I need to import this class.
And you can see I've got an option from Apache Point.
And never goes away.
We now need to use another class to access the sheets within the workbook.
To do this, I'm going to use x ss s sheets and I'm going to call this sheet.
Equals Workbook, which has been defined in the line above.
And at this point, if I import Excel sheet from Apache Wire.
And off the workbook book if I press dots type gets you can see I've got a method here to get sheets.
So there's two different options here.
I'm going to use the one that takes an integer parameter.
So the second one.
If I select that, it then provides or acquires an integer index.
So this index is going to reference a sheet based in the workbook itself.
So if I open up his credentials workbook.
Sheets.
One will be an index zero.
She too will be an index one and so on.
So our data is in sheet one, so I need to use index zero.
So I'm going to leave that at zero and add the semicolon at the end of that line.
So now we need to begin accessing the actual data within this sheet.
Before I do that, I'm just going to import something into Eclipse to make it easier to understand how
we can access the data.
So this is a visual representation of the workbook that I have open.
But the difference is, is that I have added bio references and sell references.
So on ground zero in the worksheets, we have a column for email address which will be at cell zero
and password, which will be a cell 100.
Cell zero contains the email address title row zero.
Cell one contains the password title.
In Rogue One in Cell zero.
It contains the first email address and in row one cell one, it contains the first password.
This continues and we can access data based on the road and the cell number.
So underneath this, I'm going to start accessing the data.
So I'm going to use the Apache Highwire Go interface.
So all I need to do.
It's the right road.
And I'm going to call it a row.
One equals.
Cheat.
Don't get bored of it.
And I'm going to use this method which takes an integer parameter.
So you can see that it's referencing voter zero.
I'm going to change that in a second.
First, I'm going to add a semicolon and I'm going to import row from Apache Point.
So the data that we need is on row one because Row Zero contains the column headers.
So I need to use this data within this road.
So I'm going to change the index value from 0 to 1 because roads work in a similar way.
This is index road zero.
This is index one.
Underneath this.
I'm then going to use cell and I'm going to call this cell cell.
0101.
And C zero for sale zero.
And I'm then going to import sell from Apache Wire.
And then this is going to equal row one.
But to get sell and sell a get sell method takes an integer index value or sell an undervalued.
And I'm going to leave it as Gisele zero.
So this get sell or zero is going to reference its first sell here.
So this is Rose 001 and this is cell zero.
Cells.
Ones cells, too.
So one.
So Row one, cell zero contains his email address.
Underneath this, I'm going to retrieve the password for row one.
So I'm going to riot sell sell our 1c101 cell one equals grow one dot get sell.
This time I'm going to change 0 to 1 semicolon.
So row.
One cell, one row, one cell, one which contains the password.
I now need to convert these values to strings.
So I'm going to create two new string variables.
String.
Email vote one equals.
And then I'm just going to pass this variable.
At the end of that two string semicolon.
And I'm going to create another one.
Password.
Rogue one equals.
And I'm going to pass this.
Not to string the these two variables will contain the values being retrieved by these lines that converts
into string values.
And then we can use these in our test.
So before I begin doing that, I'm going to prove to you that we're now able to access that worksheets
and retrieve those values from those cells.
And I'm going to do this using system dots out of principle.
When.
And I'm going to simply pass this variable like so I'm going to copy that line.
And place Israel.
So.
Now I'm going to save this class and try running it to see what happens.
And if we look in the console.
We can see that the values from the workbook from Row one have been retrieved.
The test one test.
That test dot com refers to this value here.
And test one two free is the password from bro, one cell, one sun.
So we've successfully proven that we can access the data.
In the next lecture, we'll start using the Excel data within our tests.